docs: update Documentation to show single Document serving (#6009)
jina-ai/jina: docs/concepts/serving/executor/add-endpoints.md

        print(f'Calling bar')
```

### No binding

If a class has no `@requests` decorator, the request simply passes through without any processing.

(document-type-binding)=
## Document type binding

When using `docarray>=0.30`, each endpoint bound by the request endpoints can have different input and output Document types. One can specify these types by adding 
type annotations to the decorated methods or by using the `request_schema` and `response_schema` argument. The design is inspired by [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/). 

> These schemas have to be `Documents` inheriting from `BaseDoc` or parametrized `DocList`. You can see the differences when using single Documents or a DocList for serving in the {ref}`Executor API <executor-api>` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These schemas have to be Documents inheriting from `BaseDoc` or a parametrized `DocList`. You can see the differences when using single Documents or a DocList for serving in the {ref}`Executor API <executor-api>` section.
```

If there is no `request_schema` and `response_schema`, the type hint is used to infer the schema. If both exist, `request_schema`
and `response_schema` will be used.

```{admonition} Note
:class: note

When no type annotation or argument is provided, Jina assumes that [LegacyDocument](https://docs.docarray.org/API_reference/documents/documents/#docarray.documents.legacy.LegacyDocument) is the type used.

> This is intended to ease the transition from using Jina with `docarray<0.30.0` to using with the newer versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is intended to ease the transition from using Jina with `docarray<0.30.0` to using it with the newer versions.
```

```

(executor-api)=
## Executor API

> In this section we are going to see what API these methods decorated by `@requests` need to have so that Jina can serve them using {class}`~jina.Deployment` or {class}`~jina.Flow`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Methods decorated by `@requests` require an API for Jina to serve them with a {class}`~jina.Deployment` or {class}`~jina.Flow`.
```

These APIs and the type annotations related to them, also affect the way your {ref}`OpenAPI looks when deploying the Executor <openapi-deployment>` with {class}`jina.Deployment` or {class}`jina.Flow` with HTTP protocol.

(singleton-document)=
### Single Document

When using `doc` as a keyword argument, you need to add single `BaseDoc` as your request and response schema as seen in {ref}`the document type binding section <document-type-binding>`.

Jina will make sure that even if multiple `Documents` are sent from the client, the Executor will process only one by one. 

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 13
---
from typing import Dict, Union, TypeVar
from jina import Executor, requests
from docarray import DocList, BaseDoc
from pydantic import BaseModel

T_input = TypeVar('T_input', bound='BaseDoc')
T_output = TypeVar('T_output', bound='BaseDoc')

class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    async def foo(
        self,
        doc: T_input,
        **kwargs, 
    ) -> Union[T_output, Dict, None]:
        pass
```

> Working on single Documents instead of in batches can make your interface clearer and your code cleaner. In many cases, like in Generative AI input does not usually come in batches
> and models can be heavy enough that they cannot profit from processing multiple inputs at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working on single Documents instead of  batches can make your interface and code cleaner. In many cases, like in Generative AI, input rarely comes in batches,
and models can be heavy enough that they cannot profit from processing multiple inputs at the same time.
```

(batching-doclist)=

> ### Batch Documents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Batching documents
```

    async def foo(
        self,
        docs: DocList[T_input],
        **kwargs, 
    ) -> Union[DocList[T_output], Dict, None]:
        pass
```
Working on batches of Documents in the same method call can make sense specially for serving models that can handle multiple inputs at the same time, for instance
when serving embedding models.

(executor-api-parameters)=
### Parameters

> In many cases, the behavior of a model or service does not only depend on the input data (documents in this case) but there are also other parameters
> you can think for instance on special attributes that some ML models would allow you to configure, like the maximum token length or any other that are not directly related
> to the data input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, the behavior of a model or service depends not just on the input data (documents in this case) but also on other parameters.
An example might be special attributes that some ML models allow you to configure, like  maximum token length or other attributes not directly related
to the data input.
```

> Executor `requests` decorated methods accept a `parameters` attribute in their signature to provide this flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executor methods decorated with `requests` accept a `parameters` attribute in their signature to provide this flexibility.
```

> This attribute can be a plain Python dictionary or it can be a pydantic Model. In order to get a Pydantic model the parameters argument needs to have the model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This attribute can be a plain Python dictionary or a Pydantic Model. To get a Pydantic model the `parameters` argument needs to have the model
```

as a type annotation.

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 15
---
from typing import Dict, Union, TypeVar
from jina import Executor, requests
from docarray import DocList, BaseDoc
from pydantic import BaseModel

T_input = TypeVar('T_input', bound='BaseDoc')
T_output = TypeVar('T_output', bound='BaseDoc')
T_output = TypeVar('T_parameters', bound='BaseModel')

class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    async def foo(
        self,
        docs: DocList[T_input],
        parameters: Union[Dict, BaseModel],
        **kwargs, 
    ) -> Union[DocList[T_output], Dict, None]:
        pass
```

> Defining `parameters` as a Pydantic model instead of a simple Dict has two main benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining `parameters` as a Pydantic model instead of a simple dictionary has two main benefits:
```

> - Validation and default values: You can get validation of the parameters that the Executor expected before the Executor may access any invalid key. Also, you can 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Validation and default values: You can get validation of the parameters that the Executor expected before the Executor can access any invalid key. You can also
```

easily define defaults.
- Descriptive OpenAPI definition when using HTTP protocol.

> ### tracing context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Tracing context
```
Sentence case for H2 and lower headings

> Executors also accept `tracing_context` as input to be used if you want to add {ref}`custom traces <instrumenting-executor>` in your Executor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executors also accept `tracing_context` as input if you want to add {ref}`custom traces <instrumenting-executor>` in your Executor.
```

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 15
---
from typing import Dict, Union, TypeVar
from jina import Executor, requests
from docarray import DocList, BaseDoc
from pydantic import BaseModel

T_input = TypeVar('T_input', bound='BaseDoc')
T_output = TypeVar('T_output', bound='BaseDoc')
T_output = TypeVar('T_parameters', bound='BaseModel')

class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    async def foo(
        self,
        tracing_context: Optional['Context'],
        **kwargs, 
    ) -> Union[DocList[T_output], Dict, None]:
        pass
```

### Other arguments

> When using an Executor in the context of a {class}`~jina.Flow`, you may use an Executor to merge results from upstream Executors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using an Executors in a {class}`~jina.Flow`, you may use an Executor to merge results from upstream Executors.
```

For these you may use one of the {ref}`extra arguments <merging-upstream>` that can be used for this purpose.

````{admonition} Hint
:class: hint

> You can also use an Executor as a simple Pythonic class. This is specially useful for testing the specific logic of the Executor locally before serving it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use an Executor as a simple Pythonic class. This is especially useful for locally testing the Executor-specific logic before serving it.
```

```

````

(openapi-deployment)=

> ## OpenAPI from Executors Endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## OpenAPI from Executor endpoints
```

> When deploying an Executor and serving it with HTTP, Jina uses FastAPI to expose all the Executor endpoints as HTTP endpoints, and thus you can
> enjoy a corresponding nice OpenAPI accessible via the Swagger UI. You can also add descriptions and examples to your docarray and pydantic types so that your
> users and clients can enjoy a nice API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying an Executor and serving it with HTTP, Jina uses FastAPI to expose all Executor endpoints as HTTP endpoints, and you can
enjoy a corresponding OpenAPI via the Swagger UI. You can also add descriptions and examples to your DocArray and Pydantic types so your
users and clients can enjoy an API.
```

Let's see how this would look like:

```python
from jina import Executor, requests, Deployment
from docarray import BaseDoc
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field

class Prompt(BaseDoc):

>     """Prompt Document to be inputed to a Language Model"""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    """Prompt Document to be input to a Language Model"""
```

    text: str = Field(description='The actual generated text')

class LLMCallingParams(BaseModel):
    """Calling parameters of the LLM model"""
    num_max_tokens: int = Field(default=5000, description='The limit of tokens the model can take, it can affect the memory consumption of the model')

class MyLLMExecutor(Executor):

    @requests(on='/generate')
    def generate(self, doc: Prompt, parameters: LLMCallingParams, **kwargs) -> Generation:
        ...

with Deployment(port=12345, protocol='http', uses=MyLLMExecutor) as dep:
    dep.block()
```

```shell

──── 🎉 Deployment is ready to serve! ────
╭────────────── 🔗 Endpoint ───────────────╮
│  ⛓     Protocol                   http  │
│  🏠       Local           0.0.0.0:54322  │
│  🔒     Private    xxx.xx.xxx.xxx:54322  │
│       Public       xx.xxx.xxx.xxx:54322  │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭─────────── 💎 HTTP extension ────────────╮
│  💬    Swagger UI    0.0.0.0:54322/docs  │
│  📚         Redoc   0.0.0.0:54322/redoc  │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

After running this code, you could open '0.0.0.0:12345/docs' on your browser:

```{figure} doc-openapi-example.png
```

> Notice how you can see the schema defined in the OpenAPI also considers the examples and descriptions for the types and fields.
> The same behavior is seen when serving Executors with {class}`jina.Flow`. In that case, the input and output schemas of each endpoint is inferred by the 
> topology of the Flow, so if two Executors are chained in a Flow, the schema of the input is the schema of the first Executor and the schema of the response
> corresponds to the output of the second Executor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note how the schema defined in the OpenAPI also considers the examples and descriptions for the types and fields.
The same behavior is seen when serving Executors with a {class}`jina.Flow`. In that case, the input and output schemas of each endpoint are inferred by the Flow's
topology, so if two Executors are chained in a Flow, the schema of the input is the schema of the first Executor and the schema of the response
corresponds to the output of the second Executor.
```
